# Algorithm_Development_and_Analysis_over_data_retrieved_from_satellites
Data Analysis and algorithm development to convert complex satellite data into user friendly manner

The main focus in the software is to implement all the MATLAB codes using JAVA platform. Any instance of MATLAB isn't created but it runs every MATLAB algorithm in bachground through the JAVA operating software. Results are displayed back and saved in the device in form of Text, ASCII or Graph Plot formats.

”Algorithm development for the study of Atmospheric Water Vapor and other parameters retrieved from satellites”, parameters like Atmospheric Water Vapor, Temperature, Total Column Ozone, etc. have been studied using MODIS (Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer)  observations from January 2000 till today covering various regions and places across the globe. Along with that, ground based instrument - MICROTOPS II’s observations as well as the observations taken from LIDAR (Light Detection And Ranging) have been studied over the regions of Ahmedabad and Mount Abu. MODIS is a key instrument aboard the Terra (originally known as EOS AM-1) and Aqua (originally known as EOS PM-1) satellites. 

developed a very user friendly application to extract the information about the atmospheric parameters using HDF files available from the satellites and the observations taken from the ground based instruments MICROTOPS II and LIDAR over the regions of Ahmedabad and Mount Abu. Using this application any laymen user can visualise the concentrations of Atmospheric Water Vapor, Temperature, Total Column Ozone, etc across any location. The user can choose any type of observation, either ground based or satellite observations and based on the choice, the user can select the parameters and locations for which the data is to be retrieved. The user can either choose a location marker or the specific latitude and longitude directly from the Google map. In this web application the user can generate graphs for specific requirements such as Daily, Monthly, Yearly or Inter Yearly observations over a desired location and can also save the retrieved data in ASCII format as per the requirements. All the programming and simulations are done in MATLAB and NetBeans.
